so I was
thinking um etching takes so long and
it's so messy so I want to I want to do
my etch like in bulk like I did with the
test ones so I'm going to actually go
here I'm going to make a new project and
I'm going to do the oscillator from
start to finish today and we're going to
see how far that goes so new
project
synth vco okay and then the itic that
we're using we can move this
over Windows okay is
this and so we're going to be
doing
this
um did I do this recently I feel like I
might
have I think I was trying to make
it we'll see if my footprints are any
good but I'm happy to start this over
just
to for the sake of repetition to
remember how to do all
this this looks mostly right we have to
look at our
footprint dude why does it open
everything in the wrong
window the wrong
display
okay yeah that seems right
7.5 7.6 that's
good
um these sockets I actually should
probably [__] where I put my
phone
downstairs um what I'm thinking is I
probably need to get more
stockage
okay I hate that it doesn't show you
the there we go yeah it's probably
right what is this
how did I even find
this where even are my
[Music]
transistors
I can go find the transistor kit
later
go but that that looks
um looks a little close
together that looks more
correct honestly I think they have the
same Footprints I I could probably just
use that
one what I realized about
footprint is
that it honestly doesn't really
matter I mean to to some extent okay
10.6 mimet that's
right basically what I'm doing is I'm
dividing the pitch by 2.54 which is um
the size of a breadboard hole because
I've done so much breadboarding that I
know that a resistor fits in about four
you know a span of four breadboard
holes okay then here for these
pots
um wait but I thought we had a
trimmer okay so some of these are wrong
because for
example
um I think
that is a trimmer I actually have the
oscillator right here so we can just
[Music]
look
okay
yeah okay so rv5 is
wrong okay but I'm happy to do this from
scratch I think that would be
useful so let's do that um
close
this close
that
okay okay so basically the way I start
this is I look at what ic's I have so I
have the opamp and I have the Schmid
trigger so and I know what those are
called so here's what we're going to do
we're going to do the uh
40106 okay and then we're going to use
so now this is the part of Eda that I
think is kind of strange
because you have to keep in mind the
pinouts of the
ic's ahead of time to make sure that
you're not
like routing might be easier if you
choose the third Schmid trigger in the
hex Schmid trigger as opposed to the
first one but I don't think we're going
to work worry about that quite yet this
just use the first one and they'll put
all the extra
ones
here okay then our
power um then let's add the
t74 oh actually hold
on start
over
so I forgot to
select and this is the footprint we want
we want the dip 14 with a width of 7.62
and what that means is that the width of
the IC is three long it spans three
holes which is
about which I'm pretty sure that's right
I think it's a little more but whatever
okay let's do that
again
okay now we want the
t74 oh I always messed that
up
okay
yep and then we'll put what do we need
we need how many how many of them one 2
three we need all four actually okay
well I'll put them up here we'll use
them
later um then we'll put our power over
here I
guess
okay now we need the
um
4148 1 n
4148 and then I guess I already have
this
pitch of
7.62 yeah it's probably
good
okay let's get this guy and
then for
capacitors it's going to depend
right
maybe we should get the uh
transistors um I'm actually going to go
try to find that
kit transistor
kit
for
I feel like there must be generic
bipolar Trend bip BJT
Footprints um but maybe it just doesn't
know that it's a BJT
so anyways this is
what this is what one of them looks
like
so whatever let's add those and see
where we get with
that
BC 548c now this is the one that
had like what are these codes pitch
5.1
is that the end to end
pitch
probably that's fine for
me okay now we need
to damn the sun's up it's very
bright
uh right this is too close together I
mean that is what it that is what it is
but
uh we don't want
that no can we get the wide one it's not
right we don't want
this I mean that would be
fine inline oh that's what we want we
want the wide
inline that looks good to
me oh you can't pan dude some sometimes
okay head drives me [__]
crazy okay so let's do
that all right so now we have our
transistors it's too bright can't see
anything
okay
um
okay so let's get
power so the power for the t74 is going
to be oh wait I going to type
P +
12 I hate that when you add a symbol it
doesn't let you like watch if I like so
I'm holding click and it doesn't snap to
this but then if I click it and then
click M then it'll snap to
it it's like so unergonomic
okay
then
um pin seven is
ground
okay then we're going to need a whole
bunch of grounds because we want to
[Music]
ground so that they
don't they don't draw any current all
right and then what was it called a q I
think it was a
q but it doesn't snap so it's really
[__]
annoying all right cool so we grounded
all
the and then we marked the other ones as
no pin no connection you can delete this
this
guy
okay so we got the diode now we need the
capacitor oh
at
see
[Music]
um oh my God Kad
sucks okay we need the
um so most of this is just so manual but
whatever let's make sure we get
this come on got caps lock on
bro
um okay yeah so let's get the 548
here and then we need to uh ground
[Music]
this and
the
yeah that's
right and then I don't really get this
whole
thing okay I think that that's right so
then
come on guys we're trying to speed run
here
cool and
then right and then every CV
and
where's the CV here's the CV and I don't
know what the FM
is is that
[Music]
fine I think we could just ignore
that
for
okay
um all right so let's just do
this so I
wonder if I type oh and okay I guess I
didn't put
a default footprint for
resistor but I wonder if
there's
no no no no these aren't
right
about
horizontal now these trim pots stink
man but this
one
bang bang this is what it looks
like it's got a pitch of
2.54 is there a p can we get a
p oh yeah I already looked at that
one come on
guys the [__] is
that
h
okay I look at this one
already oh does that cycle through them
[Music]
okay [__]
how do I turn off phone
link
[__] oh that one looks wait that wait
hold
on
that one looks
right hold on let's
do
okay put this here but now I want to
[__] [__] K CAD
bro
fantastic
all right I'm going to go
outside
okay all right so back to
it
um
no that's
no well let me go to the how about
this oh wait that's
okay yeah so it just showed me did it
show me all of
them I think this is the
one can
we
what all right uh I think it's a little
thinner than that
but can I actually do a
measurement oh I
can is that in
millimeters
I think it should be 7.6
though let me get my calipers we can
actually do this
correctly
for
got the
pots
e
and we get some
cers
okay now let's
grab
potentiometer well let me Google it
first B
[Music]
3 2
86 yeah the pitch is 2.54
mm
for wait that's not right oh is that the
no that's not
right this is the one it's the
w
okay that's one of the most infuriating
sounds is the contr F sound in Windows I
hate that [__]
wait why did I close
that more
dimensions
okay
9.5
4.32 oh here's the common Dimensions
okay so we
want
9.53 is what they
say I mean all right so let
me
Google I've never done this before
for hey guys and welcome to another
tutorial on key um so I'm quite
surprised I never made a video about
this but in this video I'm going to talk
about how to create your create your own
footprint so we've done one with the
symbols schematic but we do how to
create footprint in so one subscribers
ask us to make the HX 7111 so I'm going
to show you example of that so guys if
you want anything I to help you guys
with just write in the comments we do
read it take into account what videos to
make um besides that just enjoy learn
with me and let's get started when you
get to the main page of your key card
your main project page you'll see on top
here we schematics and BCB so last time
in another video we made a symbol editor
so that's creating the symbol AIO
schematic and today we can to create a
footprint in the footprint editor so to
create a footprint we just click on this
takes a while to load sometimes so what
it's doing now is actually loading all
the footprint libraries because you're
going to put all new library in the
current Library set up of G and there it
is lucky for you I can Video Edit and
skip the weight that I just had to wait
but let's get started now so you can see
there's two different options you can
either use a footprint Wizard or a new
footprint so the wizard I will make
another video about that is just
something that's easier quicker to do
choosing qfn qfb so this is just
basically a standard package that you
don't need to generate yourself but
let's say you want generate one yourself
you can push this button and we're going
to call it the HX
7111 and now you can see it already had
a reference and the name so the hx711 is
an IC and all ic's normally in
convention has U as a reference so we
can put that there so U1 U2 u3 so here
you can see the h x data sheet so
normally in a data sheet you have to go
at the bottom to get anything with PC
design so you can see they are telling
you how to lay out your PC design on the
reference board there's the schematic
and then we can look if they've got a
PCB layout or footprint for us no they
don't they've got a package so the s 16
package is kind of generic package so
you will be able to use a wizard but
let's ignore that and do it ourselves so
what we do is because the generic
package you can just Google for the
footprint and you should get something
so when I Google it so when I Google it
I get something like this so here you
can see the fprint dimensions so most
data sheets will have something like
this at the end of a DAT sheet so now
let's double check if it logically makes
sense so 1.27 is the pitch between the
PS and 1.27 is the pitch between this so
that's good I've got .76
1.1 here we can see it's 1.48 Max that's
fine so it's a bit bigger which is no
problem at all and our pin's actually 6
- 3.9 that's 2.1 / 2 so you just take
the max there minus the inside and that
gives you that distance so 6 - 3.9 2.1 2
is 1.05 so that's perfect as you can see
so that makes sense 4.6
4.1 so that's fine we be fine so we can
use this as our reference for the
footprint so these are the pads the
mechanical pads that will be TR to
figured
out
um okay wait hold on footprint type
through hole but but how do they call
it potentiometer wait hold on
so real quick I just want to go here and
see what it looks
like or I guess I didn't have to do all
that it's a little exessive so we can go
here see how did they call
it it just ref so I
think we'll just do that bruh
the fact that if a dialogue is open you
can't do anything else it's one of the
most annoying things about Kat I swear
okay so here it's through
hole and it's
um and it's
um I'm going to just call it trim
pot
um was it
bornes I want to get the name
[Music]
right bornes
32 okay okay so
now what do you do you you just draw
it
all right let me watch the video I don't
know what's going on that you sold on to
create the to make sure the component is
stuck to the board so let's get started
so what we what you have to know about
creting footprint is just different
terms so what we need is a pad that's
the copper where we sold it on so on the
top right here you'll see pad so when I
click there you can actually see it's
ging me a through Old Pad but I wantd
pad so to do that I double click on it
and properties will open or I can
highlight it like no push e and it opens
as well so we don't want a through hole
we want
ANB and we want a we need make sure we
get it the order right so the saws will
rangle as
we so which is pin one oh here we go
that's what we
want but oh wait actually does that
Orient us so little
dots on this side so that means that one
is on the bottom if you're looking at it
like
this or is that from the bottom that's
from the bottom is the other
way
shoot does it have the PIN numbers here
at all probably
not okay wait let's go back
to another freaking p pin
out like maybe I'm dumb but I feel like
this is an ambiguous picture because you
don't know cuz if you're looking at it
from the
top I guess this must be from the bottom
which means the pin one has the little
notch on
it okay was that what I thought
yeah okay so this is a bottom view so
they would never do this weird thing
where they like show you the
transparency from the top so from the
bottom it's pin
one
um okay and then the distance
from
The Edge to
the okay
so wait that Notch doesn't exist oh I
guess it does exist I didn't even notice
that so what the hell is
that reading these things is crazy
man are these different units I have no
yeah they they're different units
okay so now what we want to know is what
is the
distance
from The Edge to the first pin I guess
this the diameter this the
pitch the pitch I don't know where this
arrow is even
pointing okay it's 10 mm
tall
okay let
me as we saw 1.1 by no.76 X is 1.1
.76 great so that is what you want it's
only on the top so just make sure I want
at the bottom will be like that only
focusing on the top so many times you
guys ask me do you have to make a
footprint for the bottom and the top the
answer is no so when you create a
footprint always just do it on one layer
because when you put it at the PCB you
can always flip it automatically you
never have to create a component for the
top and the bottom only for one I push
okay and there I've got my and nice
what I like to do is I first like to
create Courtyard to show the dimensions
of the component so Courtyard is
basically just on right you see front
Courtyard it's just when I place my
component then I know I should not place
any other components close by so I can
just go card so this I'm going to do by
looking at this I can see 6 by 99 so I'm
going to just make a card of those
Dimensions e for properties so I just
make my starting from somewhere I make
this copy this paste it and I make it n
and that is my so just imagine this is
rotated to 90 so another important
thing is put one so this part is also
very important so to do that we nor use
sock so this is preference what you like
so the layer just make a MCE oh
interesting you can change the
size thickness make nice and
thick and that's how you can just play
with
the to make a pin one dot so now let's
look at the footprint huh so pin one is
going to be on top like we said put this
here somewhere we'll sort out the later
and we've got 16 PS 1 2 3 4 5
the I'm
curious virtual reality modeling
language I've never heard of that
before standard for the exchange of
product model data hm
okay wait so if we go to our PCB editor
and we just import just for the fun of
it we should get some and then we do alt
three I want to
see the 3D model for this
thing oh here we go 3D
models that's [__]
sick that's cool oh that's the old one
too that's the
WL
nice I don't remember you bro why don't
I remember you it's good to see you
dude [__] I don't remember you
bro the unnamed
account oh I have a shirt
on think think so bro I don't think so n
it's kind of it's kind of chilly out
it's dece it's December when's the
summer rolls around you know things be
different oh [__] what is this this
is
52 502 is a 5K
okay I follow people that watch
me get rid of this
thing toet oh really oh that's sick yeah
this was so long ago dude yeah man I
here wait actually if you're still here
let me show you what I
built
yep okay let me show you this bro so
I've definitely learned a lot I started
out with this hold on let me do some
move maneuvering man that was so long
ago that was like months and months ago
okay so here's what I have so I have
this none of this is catted out so I'm
actually doing I'm right now I'm I'm
building this in CAD in
Kad but this is a voltage controlled
oscillator and then this is a can't see
it
oops and then this is a power supply it
does dual rails plusus 12 volts and it
converts 15 volts ac or 12 volts ac to
plus and minus 12 volts so we got linear
Regulators on there and whatever um and
then the box is obviously total garbage
horrible build quality but for now it's
good um yeah I actually even in the pre
previous videos I didn't go over how I
mounted
uh yeah pretty much pretty much learned
everything from the internet um what was
I going to say uh let me show you
actually let me show you my pcbs cuz
I've I've started to make my own
pcbs
okay thanks dude okay so let me switch
the webcam so you'll be able to see this
better I have a microscope but I don't
want to go get it so I started out
with using Sharpie so you can take uh a
copper clad board like this like that
then you use a laser printer to to uh
well in this case all I did is I I
sanded the board down you draw on it
with
Sharpie and then you put it in this
feric chloride solution and that etches
away all the copper that's not covered
by the ink and so this is the first
attempt you can see the traces are very
thick and messy CU it was all done with
pen but um then I moved on and I had
this special paper that you can use a
laser printer to print
on and um then you get re pretty nice
traces the problem is the trace
thickness here is 1.2 mimet which is
really thick and so hopefully
today I'm trying to upgrade to
double-sided boards cuz all these
single-sided boards are total you can't
do anything with one layer like that's
what I learned you really can't do much
with one layer especially if you're
using like multiple ic's like rout you
got to go under and through and all this
crazy [__]
um oh dude you're learning rust that's
hype man you should check out my uh you
should check out my series on YouTube
where I make a a Mathematica clone in
Rust that's cool bro where do you go to
university uh okay I'll have to keep my
eye on that but I do want to make
progress on this so um I actually want
to look at one of these wrl files I want
to see what the hell this is how do I
view
that oh here we go dip 3D shapes oh and
they have the step version but do they
have the W version which one did
I dip for that's okay so
let's actually I want to
just just want to copy
this I want to go to here here now what
was it called
dip 3D object is this a
WL wa what happens if I try to just open
up a 3D object oh damn print 3D that's
[__] sick I didn't know damn that's
rad I had no idea that Windows had this
I don't even think Mac OS has a 3D
viewer this is really cool I had no idea
Microsoft had
this very cool I want to look at it like
what is the text format of a 3D object
estimated
cost yo
why does it have a cost on
it this is really cool man you learn new
things all the
time print 3D I had no idea that that
was a thing I think I just closed the
wrong okay so let's get back to
uh to uh the schematic because I don't
have all
[Music]
day K okay now that you're here bro the
worst thing about Kat honestly is that
if there's a dialogue Box open in any of
the 15 windows that are open you can't
do anything until you close them it's so
[__]
annoying
okay all right so let's
um okay so what am I going to do about
this trim pot footprint I think I'm just
going to use the built-in one I don't
really want to make a footprint it just
seems like so much goddamn work
okay what is the pitch between this
thing 2. okay I don't care at that point
I don't care that's good enough it
doesn't have a 3D model though that's
the sad
part but good enough for
me
okay oh nice
dude must be nice free University
uh where is our
schematic okay let me just
uh well okay let me just add all the
components first I'm not I'm going to
skip
the FM hold on let me let me look for
FM up until now You' have this course
tuning
pot
um no I don't want to over complicate
this I can always make something more
complicated later oh yeah wait uh my
Discord is linked I think I think my
Discord is
linked because I don't remember exactly
what it's
called
copy link address okay I think it's that
and then I'm just on
there all right
um okay so we're going to skip the
frequency modulation that's what I
thought I was talking about and I'm
going to skip the
um I'm going to skip the uh thermister
too even though I have them just don't
care enough to be like my oscillator
does not need to be this production
ready so whatever that therm or not yeah
it's a thermister I
think okay so then for our CV input what
we need is
um let's see what do we have on
here we use
uh well we just solder directly in there
but we we should
use
[Music]
um either
a pin or a socket I don't really know
what the
best let me think about
it I feel like socket is nice I like the
sockets let me
sgpt and
see um
we close this the wrong
one should
I should I use pin or socket for
my
H honestly I like sockets more but I
also don't know that I
have right size sockets I think I'm
going to go with sockets this
time so let's
do this and then the default foot bro
why isn't there a default
footprint sometimes Kad bothers
me okay so we'll go assign that
afterwards nice thanks bro I'll follow
you
back all right so let's go back to the
schematic okay so we need a res
can
I I want to move this to new desktop so
if I alt tab now Okay cool so then I
do this okay
nice so we can close this discard
changes um so now we need this and then
what should our standard be I guess the
standard will be that the second pin of
these CVS and outputs is ground
so we should do we should
do [__] dude honestly Kad is sometimes
really [__]
annoying
um okay so we got
that and then we do need these so we're
going to need and
then since we plan to mount these on the
front of the
board wait actually
no we don't no we
don't okay so let
me in that case let me look up
uh okay I'm back um
the reason I don't use Debian or Linux
good
question um I honestly prefer
it I honestly prefer Linux or even Mac
OS because of the Unix stuff but for all
the hate that Windows gets and windows
gets a lot of hate it's it's not that
bad like I actually don't think it's
that
bad
um
oh wait hold on I just found this where
was that Reddit
post
um God damn it where was that Reddit
[__] hold on let me do something really
I'm trying to find CU that guy had the
exact type of uh potentiometer that I
have it's like that those really cheap
looking through ones that have like legs
on Alternate sides they're actually
probably pretty good to route
through uh so wait hold on I want to do
this and I just want to because I'm
going to go to my history so I don't
want anyone to see my history in case
there's like sensitive info or
something
nice okay it's
rm065
dude Reddit is the [__]
worst I hate Reddit you can't view
Reddit and it without it showing your
email okay hold on all
products
yeah I mean
so okay so it's called
rm65 okay so now let's just do none
let's add it and then
let's find it in
here nice let's see does it have
the [__] you bro sometimes this [__] is
just so
stupid
beautiful
um whatever I trust
them I mean that looks
right the holes might be a little
small but whatever
uh okay so
[__]
okay nice so we can do that for the
fine oh
[__]
okay did the fine need to be a trim pot
I don't think so so then we just need
another one of
these and then we
need one two
3 four wait one two 3 four five we need
five
resistors
two three
four five
okay then where's our +
12 then we need a
ground
I use Debian CU I don't make creative
work or game yeah I
mean I don't really game either and I
don't think I do very much creative
stuff either I think Ableton has Linux
builds for
it okay so what are we doing
here right so we have a
resistor then we have the
pot and the other thing that there's so
many weird idiosyncrasies about this
program but I'm going to stop
griping okay so this is the course and
then we have another resistor down
here but like one thing that's weird is
which pin you hover over is what snaps
and if the default one just
doesn't whatever okay then we have
another resistor
here so like what I have to do is I have
to hover over this one then do M and
then snap to join
works okay so now we
have this guy
guy oh wait okay so I guess we want to
do it like
this okay then we have 100K to
ground move
this and then this one goes to minus
12 then we have another resistor
here see but if you click on the pin and
then click M it doesn't work so you have
to like click on the whole thing then
you can move it it's very
annoying okay do we have the CV
thing okay then we just need
ground so pin two is going to be
ground
uh yeah I've been I've been reading
through and doing the exercises um for
the uh art of
electronics um but no I don't know basic
Electronics like well but yeah I've been
going through this book The Art of
electronics and so far I've done most of
the foundations chapter but well I've
done up to like diodes and I sort of
read the thing on
impedance um but I haven't done all the
exercises but the point is the yeah the
problem is I just catted out this
amplifier this voltage controlled
amplifier and I have no idea how it
actually works so I was like [__] like
if I'm going to make this I should
understand how it works um but I think
there's like a fine line because like
people will say you really need to
understand the basics before you do
anything thing and I think the flaw with
that is that it's boring so like you
need a good balance of like something
that's fun that maybe you don't
understand in its entirety but you want
but it'll bring you Joy to finish and
then also like as you go along that path
you'll get you'll like osmosis you'll
actually want to
learn you'll actually want to learn what
what is going on because I didn't really
care about how the amplifier worked but
now that I'm building it I'm like okay I
actually want to know what's going on um
and I have a pretty good understanding
of how this works but I don't know how
to implement my own Schmid trigger
so um so yeah that's sort of where I'm
at it in
electronics I
know hey just be sorry I'm a a little
bit loud just because it's free and open
source doesn't mean that I'm not allowed
to complain about it
okay I mean like it's kind of annoying
because it's all
whatever I'm just saying like the more
deep into this I go the higher the
likelihood that I become a contributor
to it is but why Kat is on gitlab is
some [__] some [__] sweaty ass
guy like we should be
on we need to be on gitlab so that
nobody will find out where we are
it's like if you want contributors go to
GitHub okay so this is the
trimmer we have a resistor
here wait but the trimmer is used as
a
uh
so then we can just put a q there and
then we could put
a
okay then we can just wire this
up okay we're getting oh wait hold on
this is not a
ground
I feel like I should probably remake the
amplifier too before I etch these
boards exactly dude well said
man very well said bro you need
theoretical and practical knowledge to
have fun otherwise you'll hate it very
true very very
true okay now we just need to hook up
that resistor
to all of the controllers in
parallel okay so here's what we do we
go
wire
and wire okay so now we
have the voltage controlled oscillator
part but we don't have any of the
buffering and whatnot so let's let's
take the op amp and the AC coupling so
we need a
capacitor and then we need a
resistor then we'll use this first
guy and then I think we send it
to the non-inverting input so we go
here go
here
there
then actually I'm going to move this
back I just need to be able to all tab
it's crazy see that I can't
okay
um yeah we need the
[Music]
ground and now what happens after we
buffer the output we do some
amplification and then that's our sawell
wave then for this
part we have this
comparator
setup
and then we change the
reference and we can change the
reference with a
knob or with a
voltage and so
here let's see do we have
250k no I don't think I do have a
250k hey do you know why like this
symbol and this symbol are
different like I feel like they're being
used in the same
way okay whatever I'm going to I'm going
to finish this thing because I'm getting
bored okay so we have that I say we oh
yeah
yeah yeah like I like math but building
things is so much more
fun uh but like I totally understand
like when you see someone that has a
really good theoretical understanding of
things it's just so impressive you're
like wow this guy knows his [__] or this
person knows their
[__]
okay uh
yeah and then there's a current limiter
there right so we need
boop boop boop then we're going to use
this guy move this
here
um we can just do
this do they like teach you Kad in
University or is that like a side thing
and all the stuff is like yeah more
theoretical okay
then here oh wait did I do this wrong I
think I did this
wrong we need this as a voltage divider
so we need to move this down then we'll
do this move this rotate
it snap it in
place
okay and then what we need here is
another one
of these
connections
sockets oh wait no I want to duplicate
it I want to rotate it around wait no I
don't want to rotate around I want to
flip
it then I want to do
this and then I want to do
this okay cool so that is the saw Too
part of
it
yeah let me see your
GitHub
oh I already followed
you spet
PV Matt
lab
yeah I mean like sometimes I like the
theoretical stuff but I know what you're
talking about I know what you're saying
okay so what is happening here we
have Okay so this just de amplifies and
then current limits so let's just add
that because that part I get completely
it's the comparator part that I don't
fully understand I feel like okay so we
can do this put this down
here or we'll put it over here we can
copy this whole
thing h
okay I don't have my notebook I should
get my notebook so I can write some of
this down
uh okay so then we just need two
resistors and then we need
to wire this
up
okay
then
uh and then this gets
grounded and then here this is the
output of the last stop amp oh wait
should I maybe I should do
this
there we
go and then we actually need
to wait let's move this way down
here so we have some room to leave this
wire yo what's up bro
Scarlet ARX all my repos are private cuz
I'm still learning bro make them public
come on what are you talking about I'm
afraid to show them to
people we don't do that
here
um okay so I need to think so for for
this potentiometer we want this to be a
1x3
connector because we plan to mount the
knob to the front plate and then this
needs to
be a 1 by two connector so we need a one
of the these 1 by two
connectors we
need this is just a variable
resistor so we
need uh it's a variable resistor
that
um hold on I I bought a potentiometer
kit let me
go
okay so I have two different so two
different Footprints of potentiometers I
have those ones that I already used and
then I have the big ones that are more
standard with
a I think these probably have a five a 5
mm pitch between
pins how are your stream going it's
going good L gr equation
movement kinematic
equations no dude it's related I mean
like I'm thinking about like what if you
want to build like a robotic arm like
inverse kinematics all that stuff is
cool but like it needs to be motivated
with a cool
project dude you sound like a bot
Scarlet I'm gonna ban you you sound like
a a bot you sound like
a okay so let's get this done because
I'm ready to start doing the
tracing and then we can finally etch
um okay so I need two
resistors and then I want to rotate this
around
okay this one's going to go here this
one dude
Kad
okay so we did that except I did this
all
wrong we need to take this move it
because we
need and I
have wait hold
on no this
is I feel like I could just skip
that
let me go get my
breadboard I want to do embedded things
oh that's cool that's
cool
um yeah dude I want to get into embedded
stuff too you know what I really want to
get into I want to get into fpj bro I
saw this guy he did this um circuit
Valley bro this is the most insane
project dude he builds this for K
camera with uh dude cuz Okay so I'm
trying to I have a I have a webcam not I
have like an overhead webcam that I can
that plugs into USB but it's [__]
resolution and it focuses poorly it
doesn't have good zoom but this thing
and and so my dad has some cameras that
are pretty good but they don't have
clean HDMI out but this is just like a
super high quality insanely compact 4K
webcam and it uses an and it's like he
has three layer board he has three three
boards and they're all six layer and
it's like it's just three chips and like
it's just like such a sick design like I
want to do that like I want to work up
to that because this is an insane
project I'm going to link this
and I also want to build a Reflow oven
like I I want to be able to do surface
mount [__] cuz I'm like through hole is
cool but some of those videos of people
doing Reflow where it just the solder
just flows into place is so
cool
um okay so I'm trying to figure out if I
need this
uh
this
potentiometer so which one was it I
think it was this
footprint yeah okay fine so I'm going to
use a 300K there so we're going to
duplicate this and then we only use it
as a
variable so wait so we can do this this
and
then Q okay so that's that
then this gets
grounded and we have a wire going to
here then what happens is it just a
normal
buffer let's see is it a normal buffer
oh no it goes into the inverting
input
okay
so where am I I'm
here so we can ignore this I think we
can ignore this
divider okay so let's just say that we
have okay I should learn f dead good
enough that we
have
um
v
g and then this I think I can edit to be
sliders
voltage okay that's let's make it Min
-12 and 12 and
then this goes into the invert hold on
why am I being such a dumbass this this
goes into the inverting input so wait
so we need an
o oh that's not
right
uh we need an
A and
then so now we
can change
this
uh and then we have a saw too wave so
how do we get a saw tooth on
here
uh
um Square
wave
clock AC sweep variable
voltage I feel
like yeah but don't they have wa wait I
think what I need to do is you do
draw input
now see that's just DC I think that
doesn't actually make a thing but if I
go to
draw inputs in sources Square wave and
then I think if you double click on this
you can actually change it to be
Sawtooth okay so we can delete this can
move
this I guess you can't rotate it how do
you draw wire oh yeah you can draw a
wire like
this okay so we have [__] so we have a
saw
too going into the
positive I recommend doing cat things
and buying the yeah dude I I know about
PCB way I'm not living under a
rock but also it takes like 20 days to
get here unless you want to pay like $30
for shipping so I figured I could just
make my own and it's not that insane all
right so let's
view hold
on
[__] uh draw
outputs L is for
label
no
no wait that's not
right okay so now if I change the amount
of voltage here we
change wait so we want to do this view a
new
scope so we can move this up and we can
drag this around and then we want to
also view this in new
scope so we have this saw
too let's see the max is five and so
when it so when the non-inverting input
becomes higher than the inverting
input then
um it jumps up to the positive rail
because it's going to amplify the
difference and there's no feedback right
so so you're not going to pull the
inverting input or the positive input to
itself so since there's no feedback it's
just going to hit the rail um but then
when it drops below it obviously flips
below all right this makes sense to me
this comparator input makes total sense
to
me oh final product yeah the thing is I
have only CED out
like one board so I'm not ready to order
from them
honestly okay so this thing makes sense
to me we
have this and then we want do we even
need a pwm
knob it's kind of cool to have because
then you can just like play around with
it so in that case what we're going to
do is we're going
to add
1x03
socket
then um then what are the what
are
then we want this to go from yeah the
POS okay
so what do we do we
do okay I'm going to say we're g to
[__] because I want design consistency
so first let's move this here I guess I
can move it to there because that
goes yeah right there there so either I
could so for all of my inputs and
outputs currently I ground pin two but
my power supply going from top to bottom
goes ground plus 12 volts minus 12
volts
so I don't want to
like this is going to be on the board so
it's not like I have to plug this in
a bunch of times so I think I can just
do
this this that's not that's not right
this okay and
then so basically what's happening is we
have three pin
socket in our
board these are going to be wired
in and are going to go to pins one and
three of a potentiometer that's mounted
on a front plate which is a different
layer and then this guy is the middle
this is this goes to the
wiper okay so I think we're all
good we just need to connect the saw to
to the positive in oh I guess we [__]
this all up yeah so we need to rotate
this about the Y
AIS oh [__] okay so we need to delete
this
wait oh that was
weird
okay then
the all right I think that's the entire
circuit we have all the
uh we oh now we need to do values and
Footprints what is the circuit I'm
working on did I learn all the Kad
Basics
uh sort
of do I have any good materials to learn
rust
no
um the [__] am I
doing um values okay values we could
just start with so I'm just going to do
this because this is all
actually is there in the footprint
editor can I edit
values great is there a value
editor
okay hold on I'm going to Google
it
for
like I want the equivalent of the
footprint editor Global label
replacement all right whatever I'm just
going to do
it so we're going to go here like this
like this
like this we're just going to start
filling them
in how do I get rid of this
thing
uh we're going to do Footprints
afterward
yeah of course delete doesn't work
great oh my God that's exactly the kind
of thing that makes me up a wall
dude
okay this goes to ground this is
100k this is a 1
[Music]
M there's got to be a faster way than
doing this one by one
man
chachy be dude Google kind of stinks
IMO all right so we
have all of those
labeled
[Music]
um
oh
I don't know what I
did oh control enter nice okay
cool control enter will help me a lot so
this is
uh
1.5k this is a
1K this a 1
M wait what
2.2 n there
there and then
here
100k
all right we are almost done with this
oscillator oh yeah I forgot to say why
don't you take a screenshot of the
schematic than copy
Val how does the screenshot help me
whatever I'm almost
done this potentiometer is a 250k which
I
which I don't have so I'm going to use a
300K and this is
the right right right okay
cool this
is 6
oh um I have
68k I don't know if I have 14ks I'll
leave it as 14k but I think I only have
15ks well I'll leave it as 14k
whatever and then here we
do the deamplification we divide it down
because it's too
loud all right we are we are pretty much
done with value assignment and then we
can get on to footprint
assignment um
okay all right let's see so
here
um wait hold
on that's a one
U
good
catch
okay uh footprint assignment
tool I forget what it's
called through hle
capacitor wait here's what I'm going to
do
get to the
radials or is it a radial I think it's
not the radial kind I think it's the
axial
kind pretty sure it's
axial can we open up the
bro why does it do
this oh wait it doesn't look like
that I wish I could have the 3D
model open side by
side it's the disc
one I think axial is fine oh wait disc
there we go am I a dumbass
bro and I think we want seven
pitch so let's look at
that dude I swear Kai cat is made by
idiots why is this not
working
perfect that's what we
want it just doesn't have enough
developers
man like I'm honestly I was thinking
about switching to Ed easy Eda for for
one of the projects so that I don't have
to deal with
this okay so we got the
capacitors now all of the resistors have
the same one so if I go to
R1 where's
R1 where is
it oh there it
is okay so what we want is
resistor through
hole
axial and then we want a seven pitch or
do we want a 10 pitch I think we want 10
pitch so if I click on this alt
three that looks pretty good to
me okay so now if we go to the footprint
assignment
tool oh
yeah this is fine connector
is it that or do I want something oh
yeah I want this pin socket
2.54 I don't know why the defaults
aren't lined up with this I think it's
kind of
silly do we want horizontal or vertical
I always forget okay so let me go to
there's
[Music]
J1
uh what is
it connector pin socket
[Music]
2.54 we want vertical I don't know why I
had so much trouble figuring that [__]
out so that's what we
want okay so
now you can go to footprint assignment
tool and then we go here double
click double click double click double
click and then here we want one
by
three
vertical and then here we can just use
these resistors for every
resistor
and then all the
potentiometers are using except
for okay so these are the big ones and
then this is the trimmer oh that's what
the t is fet
T
right
yeah and then all the IC is use the dip
14 all right I think we're good I think
that's pretty much it for the
schematic um I'm going to get some water
and then we can start
on
the routing and tracing and routing
whatever
e
for
okay I'm
back all right so what's happening now
is we're doing the
layout I got a notebook because I've
always find
that see what is
this 202 it's 2K
okay
I always find that I
need make little notes while I do
this nice then we want to make a edge
cut
draw a rectangle
here and we want it to
be 70 by
100 plus
70 ah [__] what am I
doing plus
okay wow there's not a lot of
space that's
concerning
[__] okay well let me start with I
honestly don't know if this is going to
Route well and there's so many
components okay
so let's find all the JS J1 is CV I'm
going to make a little note J1
CV pitch CV J2
is uh saw
out
j3 is
pulse
out and
j4 is
the
pwm and then J5 and so these are all
these are all 1 by
two then
J5 is the only potentiometer that we're
mounting on here and J5 is 1 by by three
and it's the
um pwm
knob so that's
good oh
wait we're forgetting something very
important we need another one of
these pin one is going to
ground pin two is going to +
12 okay now we're done and so that's
j6 uh
Power that's
1x3 did we get a does this have a
footprint yeah
okay so we need to update
this it just gives us one more of these
guys okay now what I want to
do I like how it formats it oh [__] we
want to do contrl a except for that
delete then we run it
again okay
okay this is my least favorite part I'm
really bad at
this all right so first I just love to
see
this so we got the two
transistors we got
our
inputs and
outputs at all the
resistors and this is one of the reasons
why I would
love
SMD
dude layouting
sucks layouting is so hard to think
about but okay so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to move everything out here
and then I'm just going to start
with uh we're going to do
CV and we're going to put that down
here okay actually we want to do that
slightly inward because
we need to be careful
about
um well maybe not but I'm worried about
the uh iron part and how we're going to
iron it on okay the saw out we can
put that's
J2 we can move this and I think we could
put
this
here and I wish that like Microsoft Word
has had an amazing grid for a long
time and I just want to say make the
distance between here and
here the
same but whatever okay so this is the
saw now three is the pulse
out so maybe we could put
that
here and then four is the
pwm and then J5 is the knob we'll put
the
J5 here
and then we'll put power at the top it's
j6 you put at the bottom but I'll put at
the
top then we'll put the Schmid
trigger whatever we'll put these in the
middle
somewhere
then deciding where all the resistors go
is one of the worst Parts the resistor I
hate the
resistors like give me a
break
okay
um wait this is the
okay so we used wait we can close
this um we used the first input which
is this
one one and
two so what do we have we have a
capacitor which is C1
can move both of these
guys it's a big
capacitor and we need the transistors so
maybe we should do
this I think we should do
this
could get these out of the way then we
can move the
transistors so we want R1 R2 R3 all the
way up to four
five 6 7 8 we want the first eight
resistors and this is all just
um J1 processing so maybe we should put
J1 up
here because this stuff has more to do
with the so then we'll put this up here
maybe so we want R1 through
R8 oh gosh you got to use the oh and I
guess we want
also pots one
two three okay so we
want wait
what wait oh yeah that's the trimmer
that's not what I thought was
okay so we
want
this to go around there
so we'll move this I guess over
here
um probably want to move this down a
little
bit so that maybe we could snake around
there okay let's see here we need
transistors okay so we need to figure
this out so the
[Music]
transistor is q1 so we'll move this like
that
maybe and then Q two I guess we'll
put next to it
then we want uh oh wait we need R1 which
goes to+ 12 so maybe
we'll grab R1
now
the resistors are too
big maybe I should buy this surface
mount
kit I don't I don't
know um I think we're going to want
to move this slightly lower so that we
have some
room routing is so
challenging okay what's next we have R2
and
rv1
R2 and which
side pin
three pin 3 is
disconnected
maybe that'd be
good or maybe
even
so
[Music]
then this pin goes to
there
that shows the Whole
Net wait that's pin
one pin one goes
to
everything what is that that's just
ground so maybe we want to do
that yeah cuz we can get ground for
anywhere I love looking at the 3D
viewer
is that diode going the right
way let's
see yeah it's going the right
way I have to go under I guess and then
this guy's got to go up and
around
got to go
around okay so now we want the
CV and I think we want to put all of
this so all those are tuning so RV okay
so these guys are going to have to go in
here
somewhere we have to do it one at a
time
gosh these Footprints are fat
okay
uh
so what is it pin one goes to plus two
goes to minus so this goes
to that's pin
three
okay can maybe do
that pin
one has R
8 the thing is I think we need to move
these maybe we can move this down a
little
bit because we want to be we're probably
going to need a route ground I guess we
could do it on the
back uh and then we need R
seven which connects to pin
three and then we need R six to go right
here down one more that's good
cool I think we have space man I think
we might be able to do this
this
but who knows and if need be will will
we'll redo everything where the
resistors use uh 7.6 instead of
10 but I like how they fit with
10 okay so here need
R5
for
what is R3 oh R3 is
okay
damn we have
okay well let's uh run auto router and
just see how it does on this top
part
I don't see any blue
lines how did we get ground okay so that
means that we can get ground around here
and then we go on the front so we have a
little via I really hate how Auto router
does
this
it adds too many segments like this
one I wonder if let's
see
um I bet they're like looking for
maintainers
yeah
okay but this is not
bad cancel okay so now we can just go to
here Global deletions tracks and Vias
okay so I think we
I think we did
it I think we did the uh Schmid trigger
part
um okay what's next now we need to do
the opamp
part so so considering all of that we
probably can move the op amp up a
lot but see now think about
this or don't don't care but now we need
to get
from here no need to get from here to
down
there right that's not great
because we could switch it around and
send it to this op
amp but okay let's TR try it all right
so let's get the second capacitor
and
[__]
we want R9 and
C2 get these
here
um
so wait so this goes to ground so we can
probably move this out
here and then
this cuz this
capacitor follows and then this is the
important
one cool right because that goes to
there and then see this is exactly what
I was talking about
because or fine but what does R12 go to
R12 goes to that op
band
so so when we think about our front
panel
um right
because the design constraint is that
you kind of want the inputs on the left
side and the outputs on the right
side and you also want all the
connectors to not be tangled up when
you when you go to mount
it but it's not the worst thing in the
world if we
okay so maybe what we should
do is instead of
J2 going to this opamp this op amp will
be used
for okay so we're going to swap these
two
okay so that's so wait wait no that's 14
so what we want to do is actually cycle
them all so we
want this one to be that
one oh and we need to make sure our
pluses are right okay
so
okay so that one is
right that one is also
right so now that'll be up there then
this guy we want on the left on the
right side and then that's just a normal
buffer so perfect so
oops
[__] K cat
bro
okay and that goes to the plus now this
is the one we need to make sure it's
[Music]
right which it does look like it's
right
okay
okay I think that simplifies a whole
lot okay so now when we go so follow
this this guy goes to R12 then this goes
to
there
nice nice nice nice nice nice nice
um okay so let's go to the so we did the
buffer and the AC
coupling maybe it's time to do this so
that means that this
guy oh wait what we want is
this right so it's going to need to be
like this that or
something but probably
that maybe that is
worse because then you lose access to
the
vertical I'm going take a second to
[Music]
thing
for
e
damn I love
Sunshine everybody
love
let's see my mic's working okay so I got
to go do a chore so I'll be back in like
minutes uh but I'm going to leave it
on so I'm going to move my stuff
upstairs
okay
all
right we're
back
to PCB
layouting now my whole freaking state is
messed up cuz I don't remember remember
what I was
doing I think I was figur doing the
amplification so we need r10 and
11 and R12
actually so what I think I'm going to do
I'm going to move
this out out maybe to there probably
move r10 which one goes to
ground r10 goes to ground so maybe that
should be on the
top here maybe move it down
slightly move this guy up
here and
so this go to
there
so this one goes to there this one goes
to
there
okay that seems good to me and
now
uh seems pretty good to
me I think there is another
configuration that would work too where
I uh so now I have all of this
space
okay
well actually in that
case might as well move this thing to
here what is that that's ground
maybe that goes on the bottom side I
don't
know my way back so then we can route a
bunch of
stuff
okay
I don't need a jacket man it's so nice
out all
right let's do pulse
with
pulse
width so
six okay that's going to have a lot of
stuff in
it so what we need is we're going to
need how do we want to do
this okay well let's do this whole
assembly first what's the footprint of
this
RV
this is the normal surface or through
hole
one right so we're going to need
this we probably want to do it like this
is that an X that's an X so we probably
want to put that up
here
we can probably do
that then this goes
to okay so first let's do the Jack
socket so
rv4 so
j4 yeah it goes to
there and then this goes
to R16 and
17 dude I hate how it's so easy to oh
wait no actually never mind I got it
right see why did how did I get this
whole other
thing
dude Kad you're killing me
bro oh that that worked out nicely I
like that you can even move it in
more that's five but six goes to there
seven right seven goes to r 14 and
15 you put these like somewhere like
that oh man I'm getting way better
placement I thought I was not going to
have room for this we're going to see
I'll probably have to stretch some stuff
out
because uh I think routing will probably
fail okay
then here that that's what
r13 give me the component to move
main so this goes to there which goes to
there which goes to
there
[Music]
um
for
track width and
clearance I'm going do
0.2 board
setup minimum track
width
okay
J5 I feel like that's going to be
tough
cuz
I have to do
this I think we did it all the
components are in
place pray to the auto routing gods
no
way
see like
that so we need to go
through and I want to write
a pass almost a rewriting pass that
improves on
that so now that auto routing did it I
want to Trace its
[Music]
ground that's the interesting thing
about ground like when you have a lot of
layers you just make a ground plane but
when you don't I'm curious why did
this why did this go
red why didn't they just leave it un
blue
honestly I don't even see that much
wrong so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to
do edit Global deletions tracks and
Vias then what I want to do
is track edit predefined sizes and then
I want to do
0.6 six no I'll do 0.8 and I just want
to see
if I just want to see if Auto router
respects my board setup and my
[Music]
track like see
those like if I click on this track with
0.25
mm so it
didn't Okay
so
God bless whoever made this all right so
what if I did this board
setup
um
constraints track width oh but it didn't
even respect the track width
so
for
okay maybe we'll have to watch these
videos
all right let's
see hi it's p here from Tech
Explorations now as you may know I'm
working on a book for kcad and in this
book I cover a lot of nice
featur features in Kad 5 and of course a
lot of General know PCB computer edit
design issues to help people who are
interested in doing this sort of thing
but have never done it in the past be
able to create boards a little bit like
the one that you're looking at here this
board here is a four layer PCB it's one
of the projects in the book and I've got
two versions I've got the two layer PCB
and then the four layer PCB I did the
four layer PCB just to show you how you
can do that sort of thing I've had
questions from students of the original
Kad course how can I do multi-layer PCP
and I took the opportunity to give you
an example here now in uh this project
you want to show you a couple of quick
things first of all um it is not a a
complicated project but the way that I
built it I did so in order to show you
how you can use a few interesting
features for projects that do become
rather complicated now complicated
project was probably not a good idea for
an educational book uh because I don't
want to BG the student I want to inform
the student but this was a good example
of what you can do with hierarchical
Shades and to be able to distribute
elements of a schematic of a Ser among
different shades so what bro get to the
DRC
[__] hi let's get started using the free
router in Kad so first things first uh
here's a small PCB that I created as
part of the tutorial if you notice the
version of Kad that I'm using I am using
the nightly build which I've installed
recently it is version 5.0.0 so you need
to go get the nightly build go to the
Kad website and see how to install it
for your system whether it's Mac Linux
or Windows um all right so inside PCB
new where you can work on your PCB
you'll see this little icon right here
it says fast fast access to the free
route external Advanced router click
that you'll see the middle button is
grayed out if you hover over the middle
button however it says free router can
only be can be run only a freeer route.
jar is found in Kad binaries folder so
we need freeer route. jar why doesn't
doesn't that come with Kad I have no
idea I think that's kind of silly but it
doesn't so um Kad binar folder for me is
located in user bin and there is Kad
right there uh user bin is a system file
so we're going to have to use uh the
terminal to copy anything into that
location but I need to copy an
executable into there um next where do
we get that free R.R file so I have a
little document here with this link with
to
install and I'm copying this that and
now when I check here it has magically
shown up right there previously that was
not present so now that that is present
I can come here now let's say I want to
use the the auto router which is exactly
what I'm trying to do um you can click
there and you'll see that this is no
longer gr out it's now functional so
imagine that this board was not routed
there it is all you have is the the r
it's not routed so I click there I click
there and now it has already opened up
that Java jar file and it says where do
you want to save this stuff so I in my
project file or project folder I created
another folder called Freer route let's
go ahead and delete these
items so that I can start back with
scratch so in my Kad I've got
projects let's just go ahead and show
this from scratch so I'm going to go
ahead and create a new folder I'll call
it free Route 2 inside there I will save
it and that's fine so I save now it's
loading here is the free route tool I
click routing Auto routing boom done all
magical it magically routed all of my
tracks uh looks awesome save export
Spectra session file yes and now it has
also created this. sess file we need to
import that back into Kad it's as simple
as clicking back and for the session
file choosing it sing open and voila
there it is it just imported the auto
route right in there so boom done it
works awesome let's do a little bit more
complicated of a board let's go ahead
and close this all right so back here
let's get rid of this um I'm not going
to save in this case all right so let's
go ahead and download a demo from Kad so
the demo is going to be located um let
see here right here and
and because you don't want to spend much
time routing all these traces
individually so let's remove the tracks
to show how the router works there it is
now all we have is the rat Nest same
thing click here now we've got the free
router installed which is awesome and
Tool beautiful and we can now save it
tool here it goes it's now loaded in the
fre router tool we click routing Auto
routing it magically routes those traces
that was beautiful and we can now save
it export it before I export it though
I'm just going to show that the session
file or the SS file is not yet created
so there it is all you have is B and DSN
now when we export the Spectra session
file there it is that's SS perfect
that's exactly what we need we can now
quit this and back in here back import
the spor session file there it is watch
this oh there's an issue all right um
let's try it again there's there's a bug
that I've noticed it pops up
periodically so I'm going to try to um
redo this so let's
delete all that stuff and try again
screen and selecting something like I
did it seems to have fixed that minor
little bug close the routed SCS file I'm
going to go ahead and make sure it's up
to date by selecting the border of the
fill right clicking going to zones fill
all routed awesome now let's just check
it make sure it's actually functional
this is what the fill looks like I'm
going to go ahead and make sure it's up
to date by selecting the border of the
fill see that's what I want the
fills I want those I want those fills
fill all to fill any zones there we go
now I read the fill because the previous
fill was from the last routing job which
was um done manually by the people and
you can see there's a couple lines here
a couple rat lines that means we have a
couple things not connected they're
probably ground pieces so I CLI that to
kind kind of hide the fill here we go
you can see some stuff not connected
there if we run the design rules check
right here you'll see a couple issues
first issue is it jumps to it so let's
go ahead and zoom in Click a different
one click back just to make it jump to
it right there that little arrow
indicates there's a problem and it
says blah blah blah one equals greater
greater is on uh compos that's French
for components so this is a French file
apparently I speak a little French you
have comp comp is the component layer on
the top copper that means copper but
that's the bottom copper layer so um
let's just go ahead and show how you can
edit these real quick just for the heck
of it so set up layer setup and dude I
love this guy attitude FCU on and that
stands for front copper and then we have
back. cuu and F.C and B.C that's front
copper and back copper those are pretty
standard names click okay now it's
renamed now to solve this one I think
the actual problem is that this guy is
too close to that Trace so it's
violating the design rules uh Gap
specifications so I'm going to hit the m
key to move just move that down a touch
and I think that'll fix that let's see
so we're going to go ahead and rerun
this perfect the problem is fixed no
longer a problem unconnected however
there's six items unconnected if you
zoom in on the board and start clicking
them it will jump around to show them so
each one of these you'll notice is
ground that's ground ground ground
ground ground ground ground so all that
means is that we have some floating
ground layers this one is not ground
that looks like a
VCC um pick anyway so most of them are
ground except for this one Sol this
we're just going to grab the router
we're going to manually run a couple
traces run the wrong side of the board
so I hit page down key you'll notice
that little arrow right there will
change so page down there it is now
we're on the the uh top side of the
board and boom solve that problem now as
far as clean up go from the auto rou you
can look at your traces you see anything
things they don't like like right there
90 Edge I don't like that hit D key drag
it over boom you can do any clean up
from the auto router that you like I
should use D for drag
more I'm really not too concerned about
it overall Auto router does a pretty
good job in my opinion and I certainly
think it's handy in other case let's
going to ground so let's goad and show
the fill and look at just the bottom so
hide all LS except the Bottom now now we
can get a better idea for what's
happening here so it appears that this
is a floating pad and this is a floating
pad unconnected see it's kind of like a
stranded Island here so let's connect it
out so let's go ahead and look at this
layer too and I want I want the fill I
drop the vi right there and now it jump
the rest Nest over to say let me show
you that one more time I'm delete that
anyway you drop the vi there it says oh
now this is the closest component that
we can use to solve the problem I'm
going to draw on the front
layer solved now this guy here
um same thing I can run it over to that
same via and that solves the from there
to there now this one here it looks like
we are a bit
stranded if you look at the fill again
you can see those do inde connect
through that doesn't connect through but
we got some stranded segments so let's
drop a couple more vas that we can use
to connect everything so let's drop one
right there
and right there just to demonstrate this
so let's go ahead and run this on the
front layer which is f copper compos and
we can run
one
oops oh that's not ground let undo that
all right that's ground okay and that
should have
solved possibly nothing
actually let's see here what we got all
right I need to run something over here
so let's drop a view
there drop one right there and gra the
front
layer and now we seem to be missing oh
this guy over here all right so actually
I don't need that guy because you can
see this ground connects through this
ground fill up to there so we can delete
that one oh ground fill that whole plane
is a ground and now that's why he can
just
connected drop it over all right perfect
now let's run the design rules check one
more
time oh yep we need to refill awesome so
there a couple problems via inside a
text that is true so let's just move
that little guy and
drw that over okay and this actually is
on the copper layer so let's just move
it over out of the way you can see it's
on the Copp lay the E key it says right
there it's on the front copper layer so
it will interfere with this with this
line here let's check our design rules
now see if we got any other problems
that's it no problems nothing
unconnected the board is ready generate
your gers have fun go make this board
and that was a nice demonstration of how
to use the auto router and you see how
awesomely fast that is
uh
so for some for some reason board setup
is not
right please confirm cancel are you
kidding
me oh
God where's the
DRC
how do I run the
tools wait okay wait let's run it again
make sure that nothing's
contaminated
bro free routing is awesome I don't see
any blue lines okay but now
uh
right see
but
but why doesn't it respect
me
for
can be set for each net from PCB
new from the design rules design rules
menu net classes editor tab those values
we use and auto
routing when was that six years
ago
for
oh I think it's using that
okay so wait so constraints I'm just
going to
delete that I'm going to delete that
because these are constraints that just
are yeah but the net classes what we
want to do is we want track width to try
to be 0.4
and then we went clearance to try to be
okay so let's try that now what I'm
going to do is
file oh wait not interactive delete tool
Global
deletions
markers wait let's just do
this dude these [__] inspect
no send rules Checker delete all
markers okay now let's try running it
again damn
dude free routing is one of the best
projects ever I I I can't imagine doing
this by
hand all right so now I want to do is I
want to delete everything
again okay then I want to go to my board
settings net classes clearance I want to
change this to
three all right let's see yeah okay
let's not get too ambitious
here start
now
[__]
damn all right so wait I'm
gonna
uh I'm going to add this and put push
this to my
GitHub there should be a whole bunch of
[__] that's
[Music]
different we'll have to clean all that
up
later
we don't want the PDS for right now we
don't want the the svgs could stay but
I'm going to get rid of the
svgs we're going to get rid of
um
okay let's see let's see how bad this
thing
is
all right
cool I want to see if we can go even
further I want to push
this even
further so I want to
make so okay global
deletions tracks some
views selection filter I could probably
just
do tracks Vias so now if I run
this I do start now it does its
thing then if I do then if I do control
a delete cool all right I'm getting the
workflow so now we want to go to board
settings net
classes I want to see if I can make this
6 and the clearance.
five then I want to make the
Via okay
wait no we probably can't change the
vsss so let's just do this
and Route and if it doesn't we're
basically just trying to
find no way dude it did it I feel like
this clearance is not oh it
is holy
[__]
wow pcbs can get so
small should I try even
more I mean the clearance looks
great look at that
clearance I am seriously
impressed
should we try to print it
out I need to go put more paper in I
think
all right I think I'm going to go on a
quick
hike so let's see
um just save
that that okay what's different okay
um
oh man alt three is look at how
beautiful this board
is oh there's a
via
it added a
[Music]
via
interesting I'm sort of okay with that
but so okay so hold on so then when I go
to print it
out and I look at
this I look at the print preview oh it's
going to be mirrored maybe I shouldn't
have done
[Music]
that God that's so [__] annoying
where is the dialogue that's preventing
me from doing
[Music]
anything
I think it's just [__]
bugged
okay I guess I'll just print it
out I'm going to restart Kad and see if
there's something
weird
there we
go dude the PDF viewer is so bad okay
but there is a
via
okay so I think I want to make my Vias
bigger I'm going to go get the print out
really
quick
for
I am so happy with this it's
incredible okay so via all right so just
change the Via
settings so now I can just do contr a
delete
um board
setup net classes via size dude that's
not the size of the
Via no way
man oh [__] wait hold
on
do we have a measurement tool where's
the measurement
tool wait can I just click on
it okay so I want the Via diameter be
the same
as the whole
wait oh selection
filter all
items diameter
1.4 and then the hole
is9 so I think we should try to mimic
that same thing and
honestly is there a way to make all the
uh uh
holes slightly
bigger no they they're touching I I
don't want to mess with them all right
fine so we're just going to go to here
we're going to say via
size
1.2 via
whole what is it one honestly I think I
could keep the Via
hole8 okay then what if I just delete
that and then try free routing it should
just figure out I need to add the Via
and then it'll follow its
rules
beautiful
but we don't want to etch away that much
honestly I think I might just change
this to
be and
[Music]
then
okay increase via size
[Music]
all right all right I I am very pleased
with
this okay so that'll be the end of this
stream I guess uh clocking at 3 hours3
minutes
peace